[New post] How to build accurate and cost-efficient identity verification and intelligent document processing solution for financial use case (#906)
build-on-aws/content: concepts/create-idv-idp-machine-learning-solution/index.md

---
title: "How to create a Precise and Cost-Effective Identity Verification and Intelligent Document Processing Solution for Financial Applications"
description: "Learn to design an ML powered solution to automate identity verification and document processing using Amazon Rekognition and Amazon Textract"
tags:

>   - Amazon Rekognition

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - amazon-rekognition
```

>   - Amazon Textract

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - amazon-textract
```

>   - Identity verification

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - identity-verification
```

>   - Intelligent document processing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - intelligent-document-processing
```

>   - Machien learning

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - machine-learning
```

>   - IDV

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - idv
```

>   - IDP

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - idp
```

In the finance industry, the impact of fraud, errors, and liability caused by manual data processing can be disruptive. Organizations must find a balance between delivering the best customer experience while ensuring compliance and maintaining the integrity of their business. This calls for a solution that verifies users' identities, accurately classifies and extracts data, all while keeping customers’ data, and organizations safe.

This blog post focuses on a specific use case in the finance industry: Mortgage Application processing, which often involves manual identity and document verification revisions that can be a daunting task for any organization. To enhance customer experience, prevent fraudulent activities, and provide faster and secure services, lenders can leverage Machine Learning (ML) solutions for identity verification and document processing. ML powered document processing enables efficient and accurate processing of diverse document types, extracting critical business data, and delivering value to both customers and organizations.

> In this blog, we discuss the solution for identity verification and intelligent document processing using  [**Amazon Rekognition**](https://aws.amazon.com/rekognition) and [**Amazon Textract**](https://aws.amazon.com/textract/). By adopting this solution, financial organizations can transform their mortgage application processes, making them faster, more secure, and ultimately providing a better experience for their customers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this blog, we discuss a solution for identity verification and intelligent document processing using  [**Amazon Rekognition**](https://aws.amazon.com/rekognition) and [**Amazon Textract**](https://aws.amazon.com/textract/). By adopting this solution, financial organizations can transform their mortgage application processes, making them faster, more secure, and ultimately providing a better experience for their customers.
```

> ---

Reviewer 2: Hello! 

What an interesting topic! 

Good job opening with the reasons why the mortgage industry would need this information. You addressed the pain points well.  

The structure is good but there are spacing issues. Please make sure spacing is uniform throughout the blog. For ex, some places have the headline of the section followed by a paragraph with no space. But another section has a space between the two. Also make sure the spacing between paragraphs, within sections, is uniformed. 

I also corrected capitalization, title and grammar issues. Please see my noted below. 

Overall, well done! 👍🏼

Author: Thanks for taking time to review. I have made changes as requested!

> title: "How to create a Precise and Cost-Effective Identity Verification and Intelligent Document Processing Solution for Financial Applications"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
title: "Create a Precise and Cost-Effective Identity Verification and Intelligent Document Processing Solution for Financial Applications Using Amazon Rekognition and Amazon Textract"
```

> description: "Learn to design an ML powered solution to automate identity verification and document processing using Amazon Rekognition and Amazon Textract"

Reviewer 2: Descriptors are tough because they need to be 60 characters or fewer. The sentence can't repeat the messaging on the title or use the same words. It should focus on what solutions the reader gets from reading the piece. I wrote an example but please feel free to rewrite your own: 

```suggestion 
description: "Automate ID verification and document processing with ML solutions."
```

> tags:

Reviewer 2: We can only use 5 tags. Please choose the best ones.

Analyze Lending API receives a loan document and then splits it into pages, classifying them according to the type of document. The document pages are then automatically routed to Amazon Textract text processing operations for accurate data extraction and analysis. Refer the  link to see the list of documents that Analyze Lending can support.

API used in this solution are:
- Amazon Textract [**StartLendingAnalysis API**](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/en_us/textract/latest/dg/API_StartLendingAnalysis.html)
- Amazon Textract [**GetLendingAnalysis API**](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/textract/latest/dg/API_GetLendingAnalysis.html)

The following diagram shows the components involved in Intelligent Document Processing.

![Intelligent Document Processing](images/Mortgage-Intelligent_Document_Processing.png "Figure:6 Intelligent Document Processing") 

The sequence of steps in Intelligent Document Processing is explained below: 
1. User uploads multi-page lending documents containing different categories of documents.

> 2. API Gateway routes the request to one of the Lambda functions – Start Lending Analysis Lambda function. The Lambda function stores the uploaded document in S3 bucket and invokes the Amazon Textract [**StratLendingAnalysis**](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/en_us/textract/latest/dg/API_StartLendingAnalysis.html) API to initiate the classification and analysis of an input document. Input for this API includes the lending document S3 URL and [**AWS Simple Notification Service (SNS)**](https://aws.amazon.com/sns/) Topic as NotificationChannel. StartLendingAnalysis API returns a job identifier (JobId) that is used to get the results. JobID can be stored in Amazon DynamoDB for easy retrieval in next steps.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. API Gateway routes the request to one of the Lambda functions – Start Lending Analysis Lambda function. The Lambda function stores the uploaded document in the S3 bucket and invokes the Amazon Textract [**StratLendingAnalysis**](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/en_us/textract/latest/dg/API_StartLendingAnalysis.html) API to initiate the classification and analysis of an input document. Input for this API includes the lending document S3 URL and [**AWS Simple Notification Service (SNS)**](https://aws.amazon.com/sns/) Topic as NotificationChannel. StartLendingAnalysis API returns a job identifier (JobID) that is used to get the results. JobID can be stored in Amazon DynamoDB for easy retrieval in next steps.
```

3. StartLendingAnalysis is an asynchronous service. When the text analysis is completed, Amazon Textract publishes a completion status to the Amazon SNS topic that you specify in NotificationChannel, which in turn sends the message to the [**AWS Simple Queue Service (SQS)**](https://aws.amazon.com/sqs/) Queue subscribed to the SNS topic. 
4. Get Lending Analysis Results Lambda function gets the completion status from the Amazon SQS queue for the specific JobID returned from StartLendingAnalysis API. If the status value in the message is SUCCEEDED, the Lambda function invokes [**GetLendingAnalysis**](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/textract/latest/dg/API_GetLendingAnalysis.html) API with the JobID to get [**Analyse Lending response object**](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/textract/latest/dg/lending-response-objects.html#lending-document-types)in JSON Format.

> The JSON response object includes information about the document classification type for a page, the page number, and the fields extracted by Analyze Lending as Key-Value pairs and signatures. You can implement business logic in the Lambda function to extract the required information from the response object. Optionally you can enrich the documents by detecting and Redacting PII entities using [**Amazon Comprehend**](https://aws.amazon.com/comprehend/?nc2=h_ql_prod_ml_comp).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The JSON response object includes information about the document classification type for a page, the page number, and the fields extracted by Analyze Lending as key-value pairs and signatures. You can implement business logic in the Lambda function to extract the required information from the response object. Optionally you can enrich the documents by detecting and redacting PII entities using [**Amazon Comprehend**](https://aws.amazon.com/comprehend/?nc2=h_ql_prod_ml_comp).
```

## Conclusion
In this blog, we dived into an AI solution for Identity Verification and Intelligent Document Processing, powered by Amazon Rekognition and Amazon Textract. This approach offers a highly scalable and cost-effective serverless architecture that leverages the power of identity verification and intelligent document processing with AWS AI to automate the end-to-end mortgage application journey. This automation not only boosts business process efficiency, but also ensures exceptional accuracy, leading to reduced loan processing costs. This solution provides the flexibility to rapidly scale in response to changing demands and to streamline financial operations that improve turnaround times and deliver a seamless experience to your customers. By embracing automation and leveraging advanced technologies, the mortgage industry can unlock new levels of efficiency, cost savings, and scalability, paving the way for future success. 

> If you want to try your hands into implementing this solution, or read more about Identity Verification and Itelligent Document Processing, have a look at the following resources:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you want to try your hands into implementing this solution, or read more about identity verification and Intelligent Document Processing, have a look at the following resources:
```
